Welcome to defining a Faces main face loops.
Now this is going to be the continuation of a challenge in the last lecture so let's crack on and hop
straight on over in a blender.
Okay so we're back over in blender and I've got my head is coming along quite nicely and we've got no
no's at the moment.
We've got an eye loop although it's quite a basic one at the moment.
We've got this loop running around here in the loop and kind of the mouth loop done there we may have
to redo the mouth.
Or I might have to redo my mouth depending on how the rest of it goes.
And there is obviously an lack of knows at the moment.
Now looking at the geometry that's here just going to hide a couple of panels there so we can see what's
going on.
And I am actually going to just combine a couple of faces and with a dissolve this face here and dissolve
these two faces here.
And these two here.
And the reason for that is so I've got an edge loop down here but I can work with.
Now I'm also going to have to at the same time just dissolve these vertices.
Otherwise we won't have quads.
Let's make sure that's working.
Excellent.
It is.
So before I actually start creating the nose I need to think about what's going to happen.
So I'm going to have an edge loop that runs under the eye and running down.
So let's pop that in now and then I'm going to have the bridge of the nose edge loop that will be coming
round and it will break off somewhere around here and flow down so the chain or just underneath the
chin depending on where I place it and that leaves us in fact at this point in time.
Before we go any further this floor grid that I've got I'm going to turn that off some time ago to display
a grid floor just not in the way.
So now I've got those edge loops in and defined.
I can literally if you remember in the last lecture one of the things you can do to create a five pole
is to extrude their riego So that will look a bit funny at the moment.
Remember things often don't look right when you're constructing them.
But we can move these bits about we can move that forward.
We can move this bit down.
It still doesn't negate the fact that now we've got an edge loop running around the nodes and that is
obviously going to have to have a lot of refinement to make it look more like a nose again.
But that is absolutely fine.
Okay so the next part of the head that we need to focus on here I wouldn't need to but the next one
I want to focus on is this bridge part here on the nose that's fine.
So we need to decide where this loop is going to come round I'm going to take it down to this part of
the chain and come up.
But we need to decide where to put those five parcels.
So were somewhat bounded by this going down here this face loop as it comes round so we can't go any
further than here.
So I'm going to place my five pole here and it's going to have to be here.
There's no other ones to go on.
So the first thing that we can do here is I'm going to grab the knife too and roughly cut to there.
Now I can't cut across how can I cut across there yes I can sir.
Triangle there initially and I'm going to solidify that knife cuts I'm going to put another trying goal.
Is it going to be up here to guide that loop around.
Yes it is.
It's going to be from here to here.
And of course usually we want to avoid Triangle's.
Now once we've done that we can actually make it into a quad by cutting down here.
Now that doesn't look right until you start shifting a couple of the vertices to maybe there and lift
this one up a little on the press G twice to make sure they're going to move it too far away.
There's a lot of refinement that's going to have to be done with all of these vertices.
They're all higgledy piggledy in all over the place.
But now we've done that we should find that we've got an edge loop running around there.
We may have a triangle here.
Do we have trained here we have to sort that out.
We've got this edgeley running around here.
This one running around here which is fine apart from the fact it's a wee bit high.
A little bit high here.
So let's grab these.
Edges here berish G twice and lower than down here.
This is far too close to the mouth loop.
And I'm going to move those down as well.
Look again these can be refined and refined and refined as the face takes shape.
In fact we'll be hopping round and checking it how it looks or I've lost my side profile but I'll be
looking at how it looks and refining in a bit more detail in a few moments.
Now the next area we've got here is this mouth and I'm not liking it at the moment and there is what
I want to say a neat trick but since we're actually got a bounding box running around the mouth area
we can very quickly remake the edge loops that would make up the mouth area and then adjust them again
in a bit.
So for instance in order to do that I can go to face select here so I could make the mouth bigger and
fill up the area around.
Or I could just get rid of all of this.
I hope this is going to work.
And this area here.
No just that one there some one to get rid of that I'm going to delete the faces so it leaves a nice
big smile or look at that happy person.
But now I should be able to select the edge loop running around it which I can and then I can fill that
in.
Looking good so far.
Now that I've done that I can insets Now that looks horrible.
It's nice in settings.
Great because it can actually create a nice face loop running around the outside of something.
So that would be perfect for the I think I've just clicked away and ruined was about to show you.
No I haven't.
It's still there but here it's a hmm why need to do here is scroll down on the insets area.
That's just make this a bit bigger.
And turn off the boundary function.
And then on the mirror we can see we've got well we no longer got a problem with it running around the
edge.
In fact it forms the mouth area.
Then I can inset again and once more for good luck.
Let's zoom in and.
Oh.
Something has gone horribly horribly wrong there it's just undo that last one and see what was going
on.
I think just one of these verses is in a very horrible place compared to the others.
Yes.
We see they're stuck in somewhat.
In fact a couple of these are so let's just pull them out all the air that's going to take a bit of
refining to get that source in maybe a smooth virtex on the on the rest of it.
So let's move this in.
And once more but not too much.
Well I'm going to delete that face in the middle.
I'm going to say it the edge loop running around the mouth and extrude it in words.
I think that's the wise direction.
Excellent.
So there we go we've got to kind of lip building up there.
It's a bit awkward round here.
And again we can refine that to our heart's content.
Make it look a bit better.
Now we've started getting all of this and that's going to take a lot more refinement.
I probably won't have time for in this particular video but we've got the eyes the eyes could be do
with having some more detail around here and again we select for that and insects and insets again I'm
going to delete that middle 5 select the edge loop and extrude backwards.
Then of course I could scale that in or fill it in or whatever.
We don't have eyes.
Let's add some eyes.
So in object mode all look this is something that I haven't done yet I haven't hopped back in to object
mode and seen how that modifies being applied.
But we need to do that in a moment when we start shaping things up something to add a yuryi Sphere.
Looks groovy as that mirabeau and I'm going to rotate that round on the x axis by 19 that should put
an eye facing forward.
And then it's a matter going to hop into edit mode so I don't have to apply that scale and scale it
down to roughly the right size.
The fact that it bulges out of the head at the moment is not a problem.
I will add a mirror modifier to it.
I will make it to have a a white material for the moment I'm just going and leave it as pure white and
diffuse.
So just stands out.
And we call that eye ball and we can work on the details of the eyeball later.
It needs to be smooth.
Eyes are not faceted like that.
And finally there are two eyes So we've got a mirror and set the mirror object to the head.
That should be fine.
There we go.
It looks a bit like a play model at the moment but trust me this is going to be refined and start looking
really good soon.
Speaking of refining one thing we can do here is start flipping around and modifying the mesh now and
starting to make it look more like the rest of the model.
So I've somehow lost my Mikey side profile.
So if I go into the right folder into my assets reference material Myki side.
Now when I go around to the side you can see the effects that the surface subsurface modifier is having
and we can start modifying it.
So as go into edit mode and this time turn on showing the modifier whilst were in edit mode.
Now I can start going around and tweaking these vertices either with or without proportional editing
turned and a start with it turned on.
So when I move one vertex I can use the scroll wheel and move a whole reload of them at once to put
the model in the right place and it will take a while.
And obviously you can see here that's moving some of it is not going to work.
I need to move a lot of it here in order to see there's move up.
Has a funny smile.
Okay let's move the mouth up to roughly the right place.
We can go around and do this across the entire model.
Cause sometimes you move too much.
Zoom back in.
Got to watch where the brow is here.
Bridge of the nose etc..
And it's not just where that meshes its where the subsurface modifier puts the detail as well.
So if I want to add the bridge of my nose it there's a little bit of a ball.
This bit there so I can do that.
I can see here that we've got this virtex Here is far too far in so I can go back round to the side.
Now grab it and move it down to maybe fair.
And again we're just watching this move around and my nose is probably far too wide as well so from
the front view I can go in.
I can see that wall actually from the front and side view.
Yeah it looks pretty consistent.
What about those nostril level how the nostrils are at different heights.
If you notice so it looks like when I was hit and perhaps tilted my head up so I'm going to have to
adjust for that as well as I go back.
Let's just see how the models coming on now and zoom out and have a look around.
Have we got all the face loops that we need.
Again we can tweak all the details of the face to our heart's content.
If the turn on the cage again so just looks a little bit better.
It's got a couple of loops around.
We've got this one going around there.
We've got a wander around the bridge to the chin.
Who got the ones around the mouth and that does need sorting anchors a very wide mouth at the moment
and we've got the one running around the no so that's coming together nicely now.
Don't expect your model to look overly good at this moment in time.
There's a lot more refining that can be done.
And there's a lot more work we can put in with the details around the mouth the eyes etc..
I'd love to see how you guys are getting on.
There's a few final bits that I would want to do this summer are going to do it at the moment.
That triangle stands out as the biggest one and she refined this area around the mouth here but of course
assist me moving verses backwards and forwards.
And how have you guys got on.
Remember to share your work in the discussions.
I love seeing what your coming out with this has been the most challenging challenge you've come across
so far.
I'm absolutely certain of that.
Trying to route these face loops is not the easiest thing in the world to do but with persistence and
some practice remember to do more than one head.
I know I'm only doing one head here but the more.
And don't worry initially with how it looks.
Even if it looks like an alien great you've made an alien head.
Man that's brilliant.
Okay guys I will see you in the next lecture.
Remember to show your work in the discussions.
See you soon.